Paged Attention Conceptual Guide (#901)
huggingface/text-generation-inference: docs/source/conceptual/paged_attention.md

> # Paged Attention

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# PagedAttention
```

> LLMs struggle with memory limitations during generation. In the decoding part of generation, all input tokens generated keys and values are stored in GPU memory, also referred to as _KV cache_. KV cache is exhaustive for memory, which causes inefficiencies in LLM serving.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LLMs struggle with memory limitations during generation. In the decoding part of generation, all the attention keys and values generated for previous tokens are stored in GPU memory for reuse. This is called _KV cache_, and it may take up a large amount of memory for large models and long sequences.
```

> PagedAttention addresses the memory waste by partitioning the KV cache into blocks, allowing keys and values to be stored in non-contiguous memory. This approach improves GPU utilization and throughput.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PagedAttention attempts to optimize memory use by partitioning the KV cache into blocks that are accessed through a lookup table. Thus, the KV cache does not need to be stored in contiguous memory, and blocks are allocated as needed. The memory efficiency can increase GPU utilization on memory-bound workloads, so more inference batches can be supported.
```

> PagedAttention also enables memory sharing, useful for parallel sampling. PagedAttention keeps track of shared memory through a block table and implements the Copy-on-Write mechanism to ensure safe sharing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I have no idea what this means.

Author: Let me clarify, indeed sounds cryptic

> PagedAttention keeps a block table for memory sharing. This enables e.g. parallel sampling, where for a given prompt, multiple outputs are generated, and the computation and memory are shared between the outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The use of a lookup table to access the memory blocks can also help with KV sharing across multiple generations. This is helpful for techniques such as _parallel sampling_, where multiple outputs are generated simultaneously for the same prompt. In this case, the cached KV blocks can be shared among the generations.
```

Probably not necessary to talk about the copy-on-write mechanism when the sequences diverge.

> You can learn more about PagedAttention by reading the documentation [here](https://vllm.ai/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TGI's PagedAttention implementation leverages the custom cuda kernels developed by the [vLLM Project](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm). You can learn more about this technique in the [project's page](https://vllm.ai/).
```
